[[BSIMM]] #governance #compliance_and_policy
**[CP1.3: 86] Create policy.**


The SSG guides the rest of the organization by creating or contributing to software security policy that satisfies internal, regulatory, and customer-driven security requirements. This policy is what is permitted and denied at the initiative level; if it’s not mandatory, it’s not policy. It includes a unified approach for satisfying the (potentially lengthy) list of security drivers at the governance level. As a result, project teams can avoid keeping up with the details involved in complying with all applicable regulations or other mandates. Likewise, project teams won’t need to relearn customer security requirements on their own. Architecture standards and coding guidelines aren’t examples of policy, but policy that prescribes and mandates their use for certain software categories falls under the umbrella. In many cases, policy statements are translated into automation to provide governance-as-code, not just a process enforced by humans, but even policy that’s been automated must be mandatory. In some cases, policy will be documented exclusively as governance-as-code, often as tool configuration, but must still be readily readable, auditable, and editable by humans. In some cases, satellite practitioners or similar roles are innovating and driving SSI policy locally in engineering. Because they might be new topics, codifying decisions about, for example, cloud-native technologies can rekindle interest in setting policy. Similarly, it might be necessary, for example, to explain what can and can’t be automated into CI/CD pipelines (see [SM3.4 Integrate software-defined lifecycle governance]).


